# M6532 Peripheral Interface Adapter (PIA)

[TOC]

The M6532 (also called PIA for *Peripheral Interface Adapter* or RIOT for *RAM Input Output Timer*) coprocessor contains the system RAM, a timer, and two 8-bit IO ports, used in the Atari2600 to read joystick buttons and console switches. A very good, concise description of this chip is provided by its [data sheet](http://www.ionpool.net/arcade/gottlieb/technical/datasheets/R6532_datasheet.pdf).

The PIA has two IRQ flags (timer and PA7) and, separately, two corresponding IRQ enable bits controlling an IRQ line on the CPU. However, since the M6507 CPU does not have an input IRQ line at all, the IRQ generation is irrelevant in the Atari 2600.

### M6532 pinout

The M6532 has an 8-bit data bus `D[0:7]`, a seven bit address bus `A[0:6]`, two chip-select lines $\text{CS1}$, $\overline{\text{CS2}}$ a, the read-write `RW` line, and the RAM select  $\overline{\text{RS}}$ line. Different registers are selected depending on whether the CPU writes to or reads from the M6532, so, when the RAM is addressed, `RW` can be considered an additional adress bit.

The M6532 has also an input clock line $\Phi_2$ generated by the M6507 CPU, and it drives an IRQ line $\overline{\text{IRQ}}$ to raise interrupt requests (unused in the M6507). It also has a reset input line $\overline{\text{RES}}$.

Finally, the M6532 has two sets of input-output ports `PA[0:7]` and `PB[0:7]`.

In the Atari 2600,  $\text{CS1}$, $\overline{\text{CS2}}$ are connected to the M6507's A7 and A12 address bit respectively, resulting in the condition A7=1 and A12=0 to address the M6537. $\overline{\text{RS}}$ is connected to A9, resulting in the condition A9=0 to address the RAM and A9=1 to address the ports and registers.



